---
title: Interactive Visualization of COVID-19 in Illinois
date: 2020-07-21
newVisualization: 5
img: 2020-07-21.png
img_url: /pages/interactive-visualziation-of-covid-19-in-illinois/
---

Here in Illinois, we are beginning to see an uptick of cases after fairing [better than United States as a whole](http://localhost:4000/pages/covid-visualization/?chart=states-normalized&highlight=Illinois&show=highlight-only&y=both&scale=linear&data=cases-daily-7&data-source=jhu&xaxis=right&extra=United%20States#states-normalized) and [slightly better than the Midwest region](http://localhost:4000/pages/covid-visualization/?chart=states-normalized&highlight=Illinois&show=highlight-only&y=both&scale=linear&data=cases-daily-7&data-source=jhu&xaxis=right&extra=US-Midwest#states-normalized).  As The University of Illinois looks to resume some in-person courses in the Fall, I wanted to get a glimpse of how the state has been doing over time.

Unfortunately, the visualizations on [Illinois' Department of Public Health](https://dph.illinois.gov/covid19) website only gives a view of the current moment and little prospective on the trend of cases or an easy way to compare different regions.  Just like the motivation for the first 91-DIVOC visualization, I wanted to nerd out with the data more.

Fortunately, Illinois has made is relatively easy to access the underlying case data. &#x1F389;  I gathered data from the Illinois Department of Public Health's website and graphed all of the available data I could find using the 91-DIVOC visualization tools to create my 5<sup>th</sup> standalone visualization -- [**an Illinois-specific interactive visualization of COVID-19 data**](/pages/interactive-visualziation-of-covid-19-in-illinois/).

In this new visualization, you can view data for every Illinois county and all four "Restore Illinois" regions for the following data:

1. Confirmed COVID-19 cases (cumulative, new daily, and 7-day averaged daily),
2. COVID-19 deaths (cumulative, new daily, and 7-day averaged daily),
3. COVID-19 tests (cumulative, new daily, and 7-day averaged daily),
4. COVID-19 Test Positivity (cumulative, and 7-day average)

Additionally, detailed hospital data is available for the four "Restore Illinois" regions (but not individual counties):

5. ICU Utilization (daily and 7-day average),
6. Ventilators In Use (daily and 7-day average),
7. Medical Beds In Use (daily and 7-day average)

All of the above data can be viewed as raw data (first graph) or normalized by county population (second graph).


<div class="card">
  <a href="/pages/interactive-visualziation-of-covid-19-in-illinois/">Interactive Visualization of COVID-19 in Illinois &gt;&gt;</a>
</div>

If you're not sure where to get started, I also wrote up a [detailed guide](/pages/interactive-visualziation-of-covid-19-in-illinois/guide/) of many of the features of this new visualization.  If you love this type of data-forward visualizations, [I have an e-mail list](https://forms.gle/oLXWdijmr9i2Yxau9) that I share my latest work once per month if you'd like a monthly update from me.

See you with the data! :)



