---
title: "91-DIVOC-02: Local Storage"
date: 2020-04-05
newVisualization: 2
---

<p>
  A lot of people had amazing suggestions on the COVID-19 visualization and I implemented many of them to make the visualization as useful to as
  many people as possible.  One specific suggestion -- to allow the visualization to "remember" you previous choice -- was added with a quick bit
  of code to use a cookie to remember your previously selected county and state.
</p>

<p>
  Even though this feature was added nearly two weeks ago, I was never entirely happy with it.  Specifically, when a cookie is used, all of the
  data stored in the cookie is sent to the server every time a page is loaded.  For this site, that is absolutely not needed -- the highlighting
  of a selected country on the COVID-19 visualization is done inside of your web browser and not by the server.   I was certain there was a way
  to do this better: <i>How can I store user settings without needing to send the data to the server?</i>
</p>

<p>
  The goal of my second 91-DIVOC project was to explore the storage options available for "remembering" user preferences without a database.
  I found that every modern browser supports three ways:
</p>

<ul>
  <li>
    <b>Cookies</b>: Stores up to 4,096 bytes, accessible via JavaScript, and sent to the server along with every request (as part of the HTTP header).
  </li>
  <li>
    <b>Web Storage</b>: Stores up to ~5 MB, accessible via JavaScript, and <b>not sent</b> to the server.  Two sub-types:
    <ul>
      <li>
        <code>sessionStorage</code>, stores data for the current session but <b>lost when the browser is closed</b>
      </li>
      <li>
        <code>localStorage </code>, stores data with no expiration date and <b>persists when the browser is closed</b>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<p>
  So <code>localStorage</code> is the winner -- a large amount of data can be stored, the data is private (never sent to the server), and
  persists for a long time.  But how can I build something to explore this technology?
</p>

<p>
  Reflecting on the past week, I found myself caring less and less on the depressing global statistics and focusing more on the cases and
  deaths in the communities where I have people I love.  The University of Illinois is located in Champaign County, Illinois and, as April 5, 2020,
  the cases have started to explode -- 400% growth, from 11 to 55 cases, all in the past week.
</p>

<p>
  My second project was to create a COVID-19 tool that shows <b>only</b> the data from the locations that means the most to you:
</p>

<div class="card">
  <a href="pages/covid-by-your-locations/">COVID-19 Data for Locations of People You Love &gt;&gt;</a>
</div>

<p>
  If you have never created something that has had user preferences saved locally -- not without a database or other infrastructure -- this
  was <b>surprisingly easy</b>.  It's worth getting it a shot and I hope you go start creating! :)
</p>