---
title: "91-DIVOC-04: Coronavirus Contribution by State"
date: 2020-06-26
img: 2020-06-26.png
newVisualization: 4
---

If you have family/friends spread out in multiple states like me, you're probably seeing first-hand that the pandemic is not having the same impact in every state.  Some states -- like Texas, Arizona, California, Florida and others -- are growing in new cases exponentially; other states are still on a downward trend.

I nerded out this week and made a visualization to start to really look into where the cases in the United States are clustered and if there's any similarities between them.  I was really surprised by a few things:

- Since the beginning of the pandemic up to one month ago, 50% of all new daily cases were located in the Northeast and Midwest.  Today, under 20% of new cases are located in those regions.

- In the month of April, over 50% of all new cases /day were located in the Northeast alone.  In the month of June, nearly 50% of all new cases /day are now located in the South.

- The political partisan affiliation of the state or governor really doesn't show a clear trend -- it's been bad for everyone in the United States so far.
I hope this might provide a little more context around COVID-19 and maybe letting you step back and see the bigger picture a little bit.  You can explore all of this -- along with over 1,000,000 other combinations of views/regions/data.  If you have any ideas for new/interesting groupings, definitely let me know!

Check out the visualization to nerd out with me. :)
